---
layout: post
---

# Learn HTML
The very first thing to know about web development is HTML.  **HTML is the language used by your browser to render a website.**  Let's start off with an example.  Check out the code and it's rendered counterpart below:

#### HTML code

{% highlight html linenos %}
<html>
	<head>
		<title>My Website</title>
		<meta name="author" content="Matthew Prestifilippo">
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>My Great Company</h1>
		<p>My company makes things</p>
	</body>
</html>
{% endhighlight %}

#### HTML rendered
<pre><iframe style="border:none;" src="/demos/html/demo.html" ></iframe></pre>

You might be able to see that **My Great Company** and **My company makes things** is rendered, but *My Website* is not rendered.  This is because only things in between the `<body>...</body>` are rendered on the web page.  HTML that is inside of `<head>` is kind of like a [letterhead](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letterhead) in that it is used to tell you information about the page itself.  In this example, our `<head>` just let's us know the title of the page and the author.

HTML is made up of elements.  For example, `<h1>My Great Company</h1>` is an HTML element, and so is `<body>...</body>`.  The general form, or syntax, of an element is `<tagname>text</tagname>` where `tagname` is one of the defined elements.  There are more than 100 types of HTML elements, and you can <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/html-markup/elements.html" target="_blank">click here to see a complete list of HTML tags</a>.  Every HTML page starts with the **html** element, and has a **head** and **body** element.  Putting elements inside of elements is called **nesting**.

### Exercise 1: Try HTML
> In this exercise, you will be able to edit HTML and see how the HTML affects the rendering.

> * Go to the <a href="https://jsbin.com/diloki/edit?html,output" target="_blank">jsbin editor</a>

> * Edit the html to render two headings.  One that says: "Hello, World" and one that says "Hello, Venus".

> * Nest an `<h1>` element inside of a `<p>` element like this: `<p>beginning <h1>title</h1> ending</p>`.  What happens to the text?

## HTML Syntax


<!-- rendering, box model, css -->
<!-- forms -->
<!-- format (root html element, tree structure, attributes, ) -->

